welcome to the first section of hands-on
continuous integration and automation
with Jenkins in this section we are
going to introduce and install Jenkins
you will learn what is Jenkins
what is is useful and how to install it
on your favorite operating system
finally we'll look at an alternative and
portable way to install Jenkins using
docker let's start by introducing
Jenkins the tool we are going to use in
this video course
Jenkins is an open source tool to
automate software development processes
it is often referred to as an automation
server and at the moment it is one of
the most popular and used continuous
integration server or CI server will
introduce continuous integration in more
detail in Section three Jenkins is
written in Java and this makes it
runnable on any operating system support
in Java if you want to know more about
Jenkins continue watching this video
course and check out the official web
site at Jenkins dot IO let's see what
Jenkins is useful if you are already
using Jenkins you probably run some sort
of software development process with it
like running tests after a code commit
building software and packaging it in a
format like a zip file or a jar file
Jenkins can also trigger jobs
automatically at specific times like a
cron job in UNIX or under specific
conditions like after a code commits on
gate the main use case for Jenkins is
probably as a continuous integration or
CI server this is a software development
practice whereby members of a team
integrate build and test their code
frequently in a development environment
Jenkins facilitates the introduction of
continuous integration in software team
and is extremely flexible to adapt to
specific workflows finally Jenkins to
introduce many new features that make it
suitable for other software development
practices like continuous delivery and
continuous deployment that are aimed at
shipping software fast
to production you'll find more on these
topics in section four this is the end
of this video where we introduce Jenkins
watch the next video where we will be
installing Jenkins on Windows